[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think for all of us there
is a closeness to ourselves
that we're longing for.
So I live in New York City.
We are sitting in my apartment
with my kid's toys everywhere
and my work things
everywhere, food and plants
and noise and cars,
and the whole city
is happening around us.
We're two blocks away
from that big protest.
I didn't know
before I learned how
to just sit and
be still and watch
that all of the chaos and all
of the doubt and all of the fear
is actually exactly
the road to my freedom.
You don't have to go to the
mountaintop to meditate.
We should and could
do it right here.
This is where we figure out
exactly how much power we have.
I started trying to
meditate in 1998 when
I was training to be a teacher.
And my teacher was a
Tibetan Buddhist teacher,
and that's how the practice
of meditation began for me.
I really struggled for a
really long time to sit at all.
And around 2000, 2001,
I met another teacher
who taught me that five
minutes a day is all I need.
Just do five minutes,
dead or alive,
first thing in the morning.
To sit and be quiet
for five minutes
and just watch my breathing
and listen to the way
it reached all these
different parts of my body
was a big effort for me.
There is now a need
for it in my life.
As much as I need to brush
my teeth, I need to sit,
because if I don't sit,
I feel static inside.
I feel sharper.
I feel less a master
of my experience.
In the practices of yoga and
particularly in meditation,
it's you and you.
There's nobody else there.
And the hilarious
paradox is that we're
tuning in to
ourselves, and that's
exactly the thing that helps
us listen to other people.
One of the most important
aspects of my job,
I feel, as a teacher is to make
sure that everybody's aware
that everything that they do is
having an impact on all of us.
Every thought that I
have is impacting you.
Every thought that you
have is impacting me.
Every move that I make
is impacting and rippling
into everything around me.
We're all having these
little resonances
with each other all the time.
For more of us to
be meditating is
to refine that resonance
so that when we share space
with another person,
when we share thoughts
with another person, when we
share love with another person,
there is not only a clarity, but
a directionality to what we're
doing.
There's a purpose.
There's a mission.
There's-- this word keeps coming
up, but there's an elegance.
Like, I longed
for that as a kid.
I longed for that
even into my 20's.
I just want to-- can I
please just be elegant?
Why?
I just-- I know
what it looks like.
I recognize it in other
people, men and women.
Why can't I just
find that in myself?
For all of us to go
deeper into that practice
is to refine our
contributions on the earth in,
our emanations.
I just want to make sure that
I'm grateful for everything
so that I can keep
perpetuating what is amazing
and what isn't can
just slowly fade.